DRACULA



Bram Stoker



^ Google play \\$



Digitized by Google




Digitized by Google



Digitized by Google




CASTLE DRACULA



THE INTERNATIONAL
ADVENTURE LIBRARY




THREE OWLS EDITION



DRACULA

A Mystery Story



BY

BRAM STOKER

Author of "The Jewel of The Seven Stars,*



Mystery of The Sea,** etc



W. R. CALDWELL & CO.
NEW YORK



Digitized by Google




5 Y £ c/



Copyright, 1897, in the United States of America, according to Act

of Congress, by Bram Stoker

\JLU rights reserved }

•J -'ft f

* * \ ! - 'ft- '*



■ ■ -



• - •



PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES

AT

THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS, GARDEN CTT, N. T.



Digitized by Google



TO

MY PEAR FRIEND

HOMMY-BEG



How these papers have been placed in sequence will be made
manifest in the reading of them. All needless matters have
been eliminated, so that a history almost at variance with
the possibilities of later-day belief may stand forth as simple
fact. There is throughout no statement of past things
wherein memory may err, for all the records chosen are ex-
actly contemporary, given from the standpoints and within
the range of knowledge of those who made them.



CONTENTS

Chapter L

Page.

Jonathan Harker*8 Journal •••«••••••••••* I

Chapter IL

Jonathan Harker^ Journal IS

Chapter IIL

Jonathan Harker*s Journal »•••»••••••..« afl

Chapter IV,

Jonathan Harker*s Journal »••••••••••• 4*

Chapter V.

Letters— Lucy and Mina •••••••••••••• 55

Chapter VL

Mina Murray's Journal 64

Chapter VII.

Cutting from "The Dailygraph," 8 August • 77

Chapter VIII.

Mina Murray's Journal W

Chapter IX.

Mina Mttrt/s Journal * w <

vii

Digitized by Google



fiii Contents

Chapter X.

Page.

Mina Murray's Journal mnh 120

Chapter XL

Lucy Westenra's Diary ••••••••••••• 134

Chapter XIL

Dr. Seward's Diary J4 6

Chapter XIIL

Dr. Seward's Diary 1^3

Chapter XIV.

Mina Harker*s Journal 179

Chapter XV.

Dr. Seward's Diary •••••• 104

Chapter XVL

Dr. Seward's Diary 20*

#

Chapter XVIL

Dr. Seward's Diary ••••••••••••••••••• 21Q

Chapter XVUL

Dr. Seward's Diary 23a

Chapter XIX.

Jonathan Harker^ Journal 248

Chapter XX.

Jonathan Harker*s Journal & t

Chapter XXL

Dr. Seward's Diary 27s

/

Digitized by Google



Contents ix

Chapter XXEL

. Page.
Jonathan Barker's Journal a8o,

— *•

Chapter XXIIL

*

Dr. Seward's Diary 301

Chapter XXIV.

Dr. Seward's Phonograph Diary, spoken by Van Helsing.... 315

Chapter XXV.

Dr. Seward's Diary 329

Chapter XXVL

Dr. Seward's Diary ••••••.>• . • . .344

Chapter XXVU.

Mina Harker's Journal 361,



Digitized by Google



DRACULA



CHAPTER I

JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL

(Kept in shorthand.)

3 May. Bistriz. — Left Munich at 8 135 p. m., on 1st May,
arriving at Vienna early next morning ; should have arrived
At 6:40, but train was an hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a
wonderful place, from the glimpse which I got of it from the
train and the little I could walk through the streets. I feared
to go very far from the station, as we had arrived late and
would start as near the correct time as possible. The im-
pression I had was that we were leaving the West and en-
tering the East ; the most western of splendid bridges over
the Danube, which is here of noble width and depth, took us
among the traditions of Turkish rule.

We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to
Klausenburgh. Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel
Royale. I had for dinner, or rather supper, a chicken done
up some way with red pepper, which was very good but
thirsty. (Mem., get recipe for Mina.) I asked the waiter,
and he said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was
a national dish, I should be able to get it anywhere along
the Carpathians. I found my smattering of German very
useful here ; indeed, I don't know how I should be able to
get on without it.

Having had some time at my disposal when in London, I
had visited the British Museum, and made search among the
books and maps in the library regarding Transylvania; it
had struck me that some foreknowledge of the country could
hardly fail to have some importance in dealing with a noble-
man of that country. I find that the district he named is in th&



Digitized by Google



' 2 Dracula

y

extreme east of the country, just on the borders of three
states, Transylvania, Moldavia and Bukovina, in the midst of
the Carpathian mountains; one of the wildest and least
known portions of Europe. I was not able to light on any
map or work giving the exact locality of the Castle Dracula,
as there are no maps of this country as yet to compare with
our own Ordnance Survey maps; but I found that Bistritz,
the post town named by Count Dracula, is a fairly well-
known place. I shall enter here some of my notes, as they
may refresh my memory when I talk over my travels with
Mina.

In the population of Transylvania there are four distinct
nationalities : Saxons in the South, and mixed with them the
Wallachs, who are the descendants of the Dacians ; Magyars
in the West, and Szekelys in the East and North. I am going
among the latter, who claim to be descended from Attila and
the Huns. This may be so, for when the ivlagyars conquered
the country in the eleventh century they found the Huns
settled in it. I read that every known superstition in the
world is gathered into the horseshoe of the Carpathians, as
if it were the centre of some sort of imaginative whirlpool ;
if so my stay may be very interesting. (Mem,, I must ask
the Count all about them.) i

I did not sleep well, though my bed was comfortable
enough, for I had all sorts of queer dreams. There was a
dog howling all night under my window, which may have
had something to do with it ; or it may have been the paprika,
for I had to drink up all the water in my carafe, and was
still thirsty. Towards morning I slept and was wakened
by the continuous knocking at my door, so I guess I must
have been sleeping soundly then. I had for breakfast more
paprika, and a sort of porridge of maize flour which they
said was "mamaliga " and egg-plant stuffed with forcemeat,
a very excellent dish, which they call "impletata." (Mem. u
get recipe for this also.) I had to hurry breakfast, for th«i
train started a little before eight, or rather it ought to have
done so, for after rushing to the station at 7 130 I had to sit
in the carriage for more than an hour before we began to
move. It seems to me that the further east you go the more
unpunctual are the trains. What ought they to be in China I

All day long we seemed to dawdle through a country
which was full of beauty of every kind. Sometimes we saw
Kttle towns or castles on the tqp of steep hills such as we see



Jonathan Harker's Journal



3



Ja old missals; sometimes we ran by rivers and streams
which seemed from the wide stony margin on each side of
them to be subject to great floods. It takes a lot of water,
and running strong, to sweep the outside edge of a river
clear. At every station there were groups of people, some-
times crowds, and in all sorts of attire. Some of them were
just like the peasants at home or those I saw coming through
France and Germany, with short jackets and round hats and
home-made trousers ; but others were very picturesque. The
women looked pretty, except when you got near them, but
they were very clumsy about the waist. They had all full
white sleeves of some kind or other, and most of them had
big belts with a lot of strips of something fluttering from
them like the dresses in a ballet, but of course there were pet-
ticoats under them. The strangest figures we saw were
the Slovaks, who were more barbarian than the rest, with
their big cow-boy**frats, great baggy dirty- white trousers,
white linen shirts, and enormous heavy leather belts, nearly
a foot wide, all studded over with brass nails. They wore
high