THE  CALL
2THE  WILD


University  of  California  •  Berkeley

THE  PETER  AND  ROSELL  HARVEY

MEMORIAL  FUND


THE    CALL   OF   THE   WILD


And  beyond  that  fire  .  .  .  Buck  could  see  many  gleaming
coals,  two  by  two,  always  two  by  two."

See  page  114.


Illustrated  by  PHILIP  R,.  GOODWIN
and  CHARLES  LIVINGSTON  BULL


THE  CALL
OF  THE  WILD

-'4«BB"H8B|^_JPB5&HHBHHHH  '

jlHi^E  **          P^

CK  LONDON


London
IAM    HEINEMANN

1903


All  rights  re

2  ;."..•


Decorated  by    CHAS.  EDW   HQOPERj


COPYRIGHT,  1903,
BY  JACK  LONDON.


Set  up,  electrotyped,  and  published  July,  1903.


NorixiootJ

J.  8.  Cmhing  &  Co.  -  Berwick  &  Smith  Oo.
Norwood,  Mass.,  U.S.A.


CONTENTS

Chapter  Page

I.     INTO  THE  PRIMITIVE            .          .  ,  13

II.     THE  LAW  OF  CLUB  AND  FANG    .  .  .41

III.  THE  DOMINANT  PRIMORDIAL  BEAST  .  .       65

IV.  WHO  HAS  WON  TO  MASTERSHIP  .  •  101
V.     THE  TOIL  OF  TRACE  AND  TRAIL  .  .      121

VI.      FOR  THE  LOVE  OF  A  MAN           .  .  159

VII.     THE  SOUNDING  OF  THE  CALL      .  .  .191


ILLUSTRATIONS

*'  And  beyond  that  fire  .  .  .  Buck  could  see  many
gleaming  coals,  two  by  two,  always  two  by
two  " Frontispiece

Page
"  Over  this  great  demesne ' '  .          .          .  14

"Straight  at  the  man  he  launched  his  one  hundred

and  forty  pounds  of  fury*'      ....        29

Perrault 35

"  Glaciers  and  snowdrifts"  .          ....  42

Francois    .          .          .          .          .          .          .  53

"Wild  waters  defied  the  frost"     ....  66

"  With  the  aurora  borealis  flaming  coldly  overhead'*  .  85

"It  was  to  the  death" 95

"  It  snowed  every  day "       .          .          .          .          .102

"  Running  water "       ......      122

ii


12     ,  ILLUSTRATIONS

Page
Hal I27

"John  Thornton  and  Buck  looked  at  each  other"      .      155

"By  the  river  bank" 160

"Behind  him  were  the  shades  of  all  manner  of  dogs"      169
"  A  full  moon  rose  "  ......      192

"Lying  down  when  the  moose  stood  still"      .          .215

"  In  the  summers   there  is  one  visitor  ...   to  that

valley,  ...   a  great,  gloriously  coated  wolf"   .      229


INTO  THE   PRIMITIVE


OVER  THIS  GREAT  DEMESNE


THE  CALL  OF  THE  WILD


Into  the  Primitive

Old  longings  nomadic  leap,
Chafing  at  custom's  chain  ;

Again  from  its  brumal  sleep
Wakens  the  ferine  strain."


BJCK  did  not  read  the  newspapers,  or
he   would  have   known  that   trouble
was  brewing,   not  alone  for  himself,
but  for  every  tide-water  dog,  strong  of  muscle
and  with  warm,  long  hair,  from  Puget  Sound
to  San  Diego.      Because  men,  groping  in  the
Arctic  darkness,  had  found  a  yellow  metal,  and
because  steamship  and  transportation  companies

15


1 6          THE   CALL    OF   THE   WILD

were  booming  the  find,  thousands  of  men  were
rushing  into  the  Northland.  These  men
wanted  dogs,  and  the  dogs  they  wanted  were
heavy  dogs,  with  strong  muscles  by  which  to
toil,  and  furry  coats  to  protect  them  from  the
frost

Buck  lived  at  a  big  house  in  the  sun-
kissed  Santa  Clara  Valley.  Judge  Miller's
place,  it  was  called.  It  stood  back  from  the
road,  half  hidden  among  the  trees,  through
which  glimpses  could  be  caught  of  the  wide
cool  veranda  that  ran  around  its  four  sides.
The  house  was  approached  by  gravelled  drive
ways  which  wound  about  through  wide-spread
ing  lawns  and  under  the  interlacing  boughs
of  tall  poplars.  At  the  rear  things  were  on
even  a  more  spacious  scale  than  at  the  front.
There  were  great  stables,  where  a  dozen
grooms  and  boys  held  forth,  rows  of  vine-
clad  servants'  cottages,  an  endless  and  orderly
array  of  outhouses,  long  grape  arbors,  green
pastures,  orchards,  and  berry  patches.  Then
there  was  the  pumping  plant  for  the  artesian
well,  and  the  big  cement  tank  where  Judge


INTO   THE   PRIMITIVE  17

Miller's  boys  took  their  morning  plunge  and
kept  cool  in  the  hot  afternoon.

And  over  this  great  demesne  Buck  ruled.
Here  he  was  born,  and  here  he  had  lived  the
four  years  of  his  life.  It  was  true,  there  were
other  dogs.  There  could  not  but  be  other
dogs  on  so  vast  a  place,  but  they  did  not
count.  They  came  and  went,  resided  in  the
populous  kennels,  or  lived  obscurely  in  the
recesses  of  the  house  after  the  fashion  of
Toots,  the  Japanese  pug,  or  Ysabel,  the
Mexican  hairless, — strange  creatures  that  rarely
put  nose  out  of  doors  or  set  foot  to  ground.
On  the  other  hand,  there  were  the  fox  terriers,
a  score  of  them  at  least,  who  yelped  fearful
promises  at  Toots  and  Ysabel  looking  out  of
the  windows  at  them  and  protected  by  a
legion  of  housemaids  armed  with  brooms  and
mops.

But  Buck  was  neither  house-dog  nor  kennel-
dog.  The  whole  realm  was  his.  He  plunged
into  the  swimming  tank  or  went  hunting
with  the  Judge's  sons ;  he  escorted  Mollie
and  Alice,  the  Judge's  daughters,  on  long  twi-


i8          THE   CALL   OF  THE  WILD

light  or  early  morning  rambles ;  on  wintry  nights
he  lay  at  the  Judge's  feet  before  the  roaring
library  fire ;  he  carried  the  Judge's  grand
sons  on  his  back,  or  rolled  them  in  the  grass,
and  guarded  their  footsteps  through  wild  ad
ventures  down  to  the  fountain  in  the  stable
yard,  and  even  beyond,  where  the  paddocks
were,  and  the  berry  patches.  Among  the
terriers  he  stalked  imperiously,  and  Toots  and
Ysabel  he  utterly  ignored,  for  he  was  king, —
king  over  all  creeping,  crawling,  flying  things
of  Judge  Miller's  place,  humans  included.

His  father,  Elmo,  a  huge  St.  Bernard,  had
been  the  Judge's  inseparable  companion,  and
Buck  bid  fair  to  follow  in  the  way  of  his  father.
He  was  not  so  large,  —  he  weighed  only  one
hundred  and  forty  pounds,  —  for  his  mother,
Shep,  had  been  a  Scotch  shepherd  dog.  Never
theless,  one  hundred  and  forty  pounds,  to  which
was  added  the  dignity  that  comes  of  good  living
and  universal  respect,  enabled  him  to  carry  him
self  in  right  royal  fashion.  During  the  four
years  since  his  puppyhood  he  had  lived  the  life
of  a  sated  aristocrat;  he  had  a  fine  pride  in  him-


INTO   THE   PRIMITIVE  19

self,  was  even  a  trifle  egotistical,  as  country
gentlemen  sometimes  become  because  of  their
insular  situation.  But  he  had  saved  himself  by
not  becoming  a  mere  pampered  house-dog.
Hunting  and  kindred  outdoor  delights  had
kept  down  the  fat  and  hardened  his  muscles ;
and  to  him,  as  to  the  cold-tubbing  races,  the
love  of  water  had  been  a  tonic  and  a  health
preserver.

And  this  was  the  manner  of  dog  Buck  was
in  the  fall  of  1897,  when  the  Klondike  strike
dragged  men  from  all  the  world  into  the
frozen  North.  But  Buck  did  not  read  the
newspapers,  and  he  did  not  know  that  Manuel,
one  of  the  gardener's  helpers,  was  an  undesir
able  acquaintance.  Manuel  had  one  besetting
sin.  He  loved  to  play  Chinese  lottery.  Also,
in  his  gambling,  he  had  one  besetting  weak
ness  —  faith  in  a  system  ;  and  this  made  his
damnation  certain.  For  to  play  a  system  re
quires  money,  while  the  wages  of  a  gardener's
helper  do  not  lap  over  the  needs  of  a  wife  and
numerous  progeny.

The  Judge  was  at  a  meeting