rant
re
east
ote pi


wip Hie i


inte


ee


ay


is
rte
bait
ao


.


ai
See
F


rei


“ise
itor
a


sh
Bie


i,


For


oe
arses


Se


Sear are


iS ise
eran

s
sreresisrna


see
ae


uy,
a


i fees


ants


at


See
SS
er, se


a3


eect


ra i
Perera


VERMONT
STATE LIBRARY


CLASS ne S49
BOOK Ne__D THm


Ve


CRIME AND
PUNISHMENT


THE NOVELS OF
FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY
VoLumE IV


THE
NOVELS OF FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY


Translated from the Russian by CONSTANCE
GARNETT. Crown 8vo.


THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV
THE IDIOT

THE POSSESSED

CRIME AND PUNISHMENT
THE HOUSE OF THE DEAD
THE INSULTED AND INJURED
A RAW YOUTH

THE ETERNAL HUSBAND

THE GAMBLER and other Stories
WHITE NIGHTS

AN HONEST THIEF

THE FRIEND OF THE FAMILY


NEW YORK
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY


CRIME & PU NISHMENT


A NOVEL IN SIX PARTS
AND AN -EPILOGUE BY ;
FYODOR DOSTOEVSKY


FROM es RUSSIAN, , BY >
CONSTANCE GARNETT:


NEW YORK


THE MACMILLAN COMPANY


1928
Ct


aes
PRINTED IN GREAT Britain By Ricwarp Cray & Sons, L


IMITED,
BUNGAY, SUFFOLK,


PART I


CHAPTER I


On an exceptionally hot evening early in July a young man
came out of the garret in which he lodged in S. Place and walked
slowly, as though in hesitation, towards K. bridge.

‘ He had successfully avoided meeting his landlady on the
staircase. His garret was under the roof of a high, five-storied
house, and was more like a cupboard than a room. The land-
lady, who provided him with garret, dinners, and attendance,
lived on the floor below, and every time he went out he was
obliged to pass her kitchen, the door of which invariably stood
open. And each time he passed, the young man had a sick,
frightened feeling, which made him scowl and feel ashamed.
He was hopelessly in debt to his landlady, and was afraid of
meeting her.

This was not because he was cowardly and abject, quite the
contrary ; but for some time past he had been in an overstrained,
irritable condition, verging on hypochondria. He had become
so completely absorbed in himself, and isolated from his fellows
that he dreaded meeting, not only his landlady, but any one at
all. He was crushed by poverty, but the anxieties of his position
had of late ceased to weigh upon him. He had given up attend-
ing to matters of practical importance ; he had lost all desire to
du so. Nothing that any landlady could do had a real terror
forhim. But to be stopped on the stairs, to be forced to listen
to her trivial, irrelevant gossip, to pestering demands for
payment, threats and complaints, and to rack his brains for
excuses, to prevaricate, to lie—no, rather than that, he would
creep down the stairs like a cat and slip out unseen.

This evening, however, on coming out into the street, he
became acutely aware of his fears.

“T want to attempt a thing like that and am frightened by
these trifles,” he thought, with an odd smile. “Hm... yes,


1 A
12203


2 CRIME AND PUNISHMENT


all is in a man’s hands and he lets it all slip from cowardice,
that’s an axiom. It would be interesting to know what it is
men are most afraid of. Taking a new step, uttering a new
word is what they fear most. . . . But I am talking too much,
It’s because I chatter that I do nothing. Or perhaps it is that
I chatter because I do nothing. I’ve learned to chatter this
last month, lying for days together in my den thinking . . . of
Jack the Giant-killer. Why am I going there now? Am I
capable of that? Is that serious? It is not serious at all. It’s
simply a fantasy to amuse myself; a plaything! Yes, maybe
it is a plaything.”

The heat in the street was terrible: and the airlessness, the
bustle and the plaster, scaffolding, bricks, and dust all about
him, and that special] Petersburg stench, so familiar to all who
are unable to get out of town in summer—all worked painfully
upon the young man’s already overwrought nerves. The
insufferable stench from the pot-houses, which are particularly
numerous in that part of the town, and the drunken men whom
he met continually, although it was a working day, completed
the revolting misery of the picture. An expression of the
profoundest disgust gleamed for a moment in the young man’s
refined face. He was, by the way, exceptionally handsome,
above the average in height, slim, well-built, with beautiful dark
eyes and dark brown hair. Soon he sank into deep thought,
or more accurately speaking into a complete blankness of mind ;
he walked along not observing what was about him and not
caring to observe it. From time to time, he would mutter
something, from the habit of talking to himself, to which he had
just confessed. At these moments he would become conscious
that his ideas were sometimes in a tangle and that he was very
weak ; for two days he had scarcely tasted food.

He was so badly dressed that even a man accustomed to
shabbiness would have been ashamed to be seen in the street in
such rags. In that quarter of the town, however, scarcely any
short-coming in dress would have created surprise. Owing to
the proximity of the Hay Market, the number of establishments
of bad character, the preponderance of the trading and
working class population crowded in these streets and
alleys in the heart of Petersburg, types so various were to
be seen in the streets that no figure, however queer, would
have caused surprise. But there was such accumulated bitter-
ness and contempt in the young man’s heart that, in spite


CRIME AND PUNISHMENT 3


of all the fastidiousness of youth, he minded his rags least of
all in the street. It was a different matter when he met with
acquaintances or with former fellow students, whom, indeed, he
disliked meeting at any time. And yet when a drunken man
who, for some unknown reason, was being taken somewhere in a
huge waggon dragged by a heavy dray horse, suddenly shouted
at him as he drove past: ‘‘ Hey there, German hatter!”
bawling at the top of his voice and pointing at him—the young
man stopped suddenly and clutched tremulously at his hat.
It was a tall round hat from Zimmerman’s, but completely worn
out, rusty with age, all torn and bespattered, brimless and bent
on one side in a most unseemly fashion. Not shame, however,
but quite another feeling akin to terror had overtaken him.

“T knew it,” he muttered in confusion, “I thought so!
That’s the worst of all! Why,a stupid thing like this, the most
trivial detail might spoil the whole plan. Yes, my hat is too
noticeable. . . . It looks absurd and that makes it noticeable. ...
With my rags I ought to wear a cap, any sort of old pancake,
but not this grotesque thing. Nobody wears such a hat,
it would be noticed a mile off, it would be remembered. . .
What matters is that people would remember it, and that would
give them a clue. For this business one should be as little
conspicuous as possible. . . . Trifles, trifles are what matter !
Why, it’s just such trifles that always ruin everything. .. .”

He had not far to go; he knew indeed how many steps it was
from the gate of his lodging house: exactly seven hundred and
thirty. He had counted them once when he had been lost in
dreams. At the time he had put no faith in those dreams and
was only tantalising himself by their hideous but daring reck-
lessness. Now, a month later, he had begun to look upon them
differently, and, in spite of the monologues in which he jeered
at his own impotence and indecision, he had involuntarily come to
regard this “hideous ”’ dream as an exploit to be attempted,
although he still did not realise this himself. He was positively
going now for a “rehearsal” of his project, and at every step
his excitement grew more and more violent.

With a sinking heart and a nervous tremor, he went up to a
huge house which on one side looked on to the canal, and on the
other into the street. This house was let out in tiny tenements
and was inhabit