DUKE

UNIVERSITY

LIBRARY


Treasure  "Room


yPECTATIO>


BY


HARLES   DICKER


s


MOBIL  I
S.  H.  GOETZEL.V


TV.


4


GREAT    EXPECTATIONS.


CHAPTER   I.

My  father's  family  name  being  Pirrip,  and   my  Christian  name
Philip,  my  infant  tongue  could  make  of  both  names  nothing  I<
or  more  explicit  than  Pip.     So  I  called   myself  Pip,  ami   came  to

be  called  Pip.-

!  give  Pirrip  as  my  father's  family  name,  on  the  authority  of  his
tombstone  and  my  sister — Mrs.  .Toe  Gargery,  who  married  the
blacksmith.  As  1  never  saw  my  father  or  my  mother,  and  never
saw  any  likeness  of  either  of  them  (for  their  days  were  long  before
the  days  of  photographs);  my  first  fancies  regarding  what  they
were  like  were  unreasonably  derived  from  their  tombstones.  The
■  of  the  letters  on  my  father's  gave  me  an  odd  idea  that  he
was  a  square,  stout,  dark  man.  with  curly  black  hair.  From  the
character  and  turn  of  the  inscription,  "  also  Gem-pinna  wife  of  /he
ahor<  a  childish  conclusion  that  my  mother  was  freckled

and  sickly.  To  live  little  stone  lozenges,  each  about  a  foot  and  a
half  long,  which  were  arranged  in  a  neat  row  beside-  their  grave,
and  were  sacred  to  the  memory  of  five  little  brothers  of  mine —
who   ■  trying   to  get   a  living  exceedingly  early  in   that

universal  struggle — 1  am  indebted  for  a  belief  1  religiously  enter-
tained thai  they  had  all  been  horn  on  their  hacks  with  their  hands
in  their  trowsers-pockets,  and  had  never  taken  them  out.  in  this
state  of  existence.

Ours  was  the  marsh  country,  down  by  the  river,  within,  as  the
river  wound,  twenty  miles  of  the  sea.  My  first  distinct  impression
of  the  identity  of  things  seems  to  me  to  havfc  been  gained  on  a
memorable  raw,  damp  afternoon  toward  evening.  At  such  a  time
I  found  out  fin-  certain  that  this  bleak  place  overgrown  with  nettles'
was  the  church-yard  ;  and  that  .  ohias  Pirrip,  late  of  this  Parish,
and  also  Georgiana,  wife  of  the  above,  were  dead  and  buried;  and
that  Alexander,  Bartholemew,  Abraham, George,  and  Robert,  infant
children  of  the  aforesaid,  were  also  dead  and  buried;  and  that  the
dark,  flat  wilderness  beyond  the  church-yard,  intersected  with
dikes  and  mounds  and  jjates,  witk   scattered  uattla   ;


/MI5930


4  GREAT  EXPECTATI01

was  the  marshes  :•  and  that  the  low  leaden  line  beyond  was
river;  and  that  the  distant  savage  lair  from  which  the  wind  was
rushing  was  the  sea  ;  and  that  the  small  bundle  of  shivers  grow-
ing afraid  of  it  all  and  beginning  to  cry,  was  Pip.

"Hold  your  noise!  "  cried  a  terrible  an  started  up

among  the  graves  at  the  side  of  the  church-porch,
your  noise,  yfou  little  devil,  or  I'll  cut  your  throat  !  "

A  fearful  man,  all  in  gray,  with  a  greal  i
with  no  bat,  and  broken  shoes,  and  wil  tied  round  his

head.     A  man  who  had  been  soaked   in  water  and   smothered  in
mud,  and  lamed  by  stones,  and  cut  by  flints,  and  stung  by  nettles,
and  torn  by  briers;    who   limped,  and   shivered,  and   glared,
growled;  and  whose  teeth  chattered  in  his  head  as  he  seized  me
bin.

"Don't  cut  mv  throat.  Sir!  "  1  pleaded  in  terror.     •'  Pray  i
.  !"

"  ",  id  the  man.    "  Quid

■■  y-

."  said  the  Give  11  i

.  '•  Pip.     Pij),  £
'■  Show  •  you   live,"  said    I

■ !  "

where  <w  village  lay  on
ollards,  a  mile  or  more  from  the  church.
The  man,  after  looking  at  me  for  a  moment,  turned  me  upside-
my  packets.    Ther  thing  in  them  but;

ad.    When  the  church  came  to  itself— for
I  strong  that  he  made  over  be

and  I  steeple  under  my  legs — when   the  church   6an

was  seated   on  a  high  tombstone  trembli
he  ate  .  usly.

dog  !  "  said  the  man,  lie  lips  at  me,  "

ha'  got !  "
I  bi  :e  fat,  though  1  was  at  that  time  undersized

for  my  years,  and  not  strong.

"Di  I  couldn't  eat  'em,"  said  the  man,  with  a  threaten-

ing bis  head,  "and  if  1  han't  half  a  mind  to  't!  "

1  earnestly  expressed  my  hope  that  he  wouldn't,  and  held  tigh
to  the  tombstone  on  which  he  had  put  me;    partly  to  keep  m;
it,  partly  to  keep  myself  from  crying.
"Now  then,  lookie  here!"   said  the   man.     "Where's    your
■  mother?  "

"  There,  Sir  !  "  said  I.

He  started,  made  a  short  run,  and  stopped  and  looked  over  his
shoulder.

"  There,  Sir !  "  1  timidly  explained.    "Also  Georgianna.     That's
my  mother."


GREAT  EXPECTATIONS.

"Oho!"  said   he,  coming  back.     "And   is  that    you
alonger  yotir  moth<

::-,"  said  i  ;   "  him  i  Df  this  pai

"  Ha!  "  he  muttered  then,  considering.     "  Who  d'ye  live  with —
supposin'  vou're  kindly  let  to  live,  whicfl  I  han'1  made  up  my  i
about  ?"  .'

ter,  Sir —  — wife  of

blacksmith,  Sir."
"Blacksmith,  eh  !

ing  at  his  leg  and  i  ral  time-.

closer  tn  my  tombstone^  took  me  by  both  arms,  and  tilt"  I

ild  bold  me;  so  that  hi  ,  owerfully

down  into  mine,  and  mine  looked  ly  up  into  his.

oWlookie  here,"  lie  .-aid,  "the  qu
to  he  let  to  lr
'.'  Yes,  Sir."
"  And  you  know  what  wit!

"  *

After  each  question  he  tilted  me  over  a  little

danger.
"  1  le."     Me  tilted  in.    "  Ahd

wittle  ''You  bring 'em  both  to  i

mcl  liver  out."

tened,  and  so  giddy  that  1  clung'  to  him
hands,  and  said.  "  if  yon  would  kindly  pie  it  me

keep  upright,  Sir,  p  shanldn'1  be  sick,  and  perhaps  1  i

■re."

(piendous  dip  and  roll,  so  that  the  church

d  over  its  own  weather-cock.     Then  he  held  me  by  the  arms,

in  an  upright  poslti  top  of  the  stone,  ami  went  on  in  these

!  terms  :

"  Von  bring   me,  to-morrow  morning  early,  that  file,  and  I

wittles.     Vou  bring  the  lot  to  me  at  that  old  Battery  over  yonder.

Von  do  this,aud  you  never  dare  to  say  a  word,  or  dare  to  make  a  sign

n  such  a  person  as  me,  or  any  person,
i  to  live.     You  fail,  or  yon  go  from  my  words
in  any  partickler,  no  matter  how  small  the  partickler,  and  your
•  liver  shall  be  tore  our,  roasted,  and  at  •.     N

may  think  I  am.     There's  a  young  man  hid

with  mparison  with  whi<  g  man  Lam  a   In  gel  o'

young  man  hears   the  words  I  speak.     That  young

way  pecooliar  to  himself,  of  getting  at  a  boy,  and

at  his  liearr,  and  at  his  liver.     It  is  in  wadn»for  a  hoy  to  atto  mpt  to

■   that  young   man.     A  boy  may  lock  his  door,

be  warm  in  bed,  may  tuck  himself  up,  may  draw  the  clothes

over  his  head,  may  think  himself  comfortable   and  safe;    but  that


'


fcETilOfl


GtfJEAT  EXPECTATIONS.

young  man  will  softly  creep   and  creep  his  way  to  him   am
hint  open.     I  am  a  keepiu'  that  young  man  from  harmin'  of  j
the  present  moment,  with  greart  difficulty .     I   find   it  very  hard  to
hold  that  young  man   off   of   your   inside     Now,   whai    do
say  V  .  •

I  said  that  T  would  got  him  the  file,  and  I  wind'!  get  hint  w
broken  bus  of  food  I  could,  and  I  would  come  to  him  al
tery.  early  in  the  morning.

"  Sav  Lord  strike  you  dead  if  you  don'i  ?"  said  the  man.

!  said  so,  and  lie  look  me  down.

•'Now,"  he  pursued,  "you  remember  what  you've  undertook,  and
remember  that  youn