.'■b.Tt'.:^-^''"^'-'-'


;!fc


■fcl  ■


vrr..


••Alt.   ■*•'


Digitized  by  \he  Internet  Arcliive

in  2010  with  funding  from

University  of  Toronto


http://www.arclnive.org/details/wutineringheightOObron


1

iV

'/eryman's   library

MtED  by  ERNEST  RHYS


FICTION


WUTHERING     HEIGHTS

WITH  AN   INTRODUCTION

BY    THE    EDITOR


THE  PUBLISHERS  OF  EVET^TM^J^  tt
LIB'l^l^rWiLL  BE  PLEASED  TO  SENil
FREELY  TO  ALL  APPLICANTS  A  LIS"^!
OF  THE  PUBLISHED  AND  PROJECTED!
VOLUMES  TO  BE  COMPRISED  UNDER  |
THE    FOLLOWING    TWELVE    HEADINGS:

TRAVEL     ^     SCIENCE     1$     FICTION

THEOLOGY    &     PHILOSOPHY

HISTORY        -^        CLASSICAL

FOR      YOUNG      PEOPLE

ESSAYS  ;^  ORATORY

POETRY  &  DRAMA

BIOGRAPHY

ROMANCE


V


IN  TWO  STYLES  OF  BINDING,  CLOTH
FLAT  BACK  COLOURED  TOP  AND
LEATHER    ROUND    CORNERS    GILT    TOP.

London:    J.    M.    DENT    &    CO.^

New   York:     E.    P.    BUTTON    &    CO.


WUTHERING
HEIGHTS  m
BY  EMILY
BRONTE


LONDONrPUBLISHEP
byJ  M  DENT-  ©CO
AND  IN  NEW  YORK
BY  Z'P'DVTTOK  ^CO


All  rights  rtter-ved


MAY  1 4  196f


(.i««T  .^


r.


rPx  Z.


981828

PRINTED   BY

TURNBULL   AND   SPEARS,

EDINBURGH


INTRODUCTION

ONE  of  the  most  original  of  anonymous  critics
(whom  it  is  forbidden  to  name)  writes  of
Emily  Bronte  :  "  You  cannot  really  criticise
her.  Charlotte  Bronte  it  is  easy  to  range  with  the
English  novelists.  Think,  of  her,  and  you  think  next
of  Mrs  Gaskell  and  George  Eliot.  Think  of  '  Jane
Eyre,'  and  you  remember  that  the  clever  people  of
the  forties  were  talking  of  it  in  the  same  breath  with
'  Vanity  Fair.'  About  its  worst  pages  still  hangs  the
air  of  the  parlour  with  mahogany  chairs  that  our
grandfathers  suffered.  But  think  of  Emily  Bronte,
and  you  do  not  think  of  books,  or  other  novels,  nor
even  those  of  her  sisters  :  but  of  the  rnoorSi  and  the
open  air,  and  the  extraordinary  mixed^ock,  Irish  and
Cornish,  from  which  she,  like  the  author  of  the
'Countess  Kathleen,'  sprang.  If  we  attach  her  to
English  literature  at  all,  it  is  to  no  school,  no  parti-
cular group  ;  or  if  we  do,  it  is  to  no  school  that  I  know.
You  instinctively  think  of  Charlotte  Bronte  among  the
novelists;  Ermly  Bronte,  if  you  can  relate  her  in  this
way  at  all,  only  among  the  poets.  When  I  try  to
recall  the  story  of  HeathclifF  and  Hareton,  Cathy  and
Isabella,  Nelly  Dean  and  Joseph,  it  is  to  place  it  in  the
north-country  scenes,  not  unlike  Haworth's,  where  I
first  read  it.  Tie  book  came  to  me  there  as  a  revela-
tion, with  a  reality  that  attached  it  once  and  for  all  to
the  house  and  phce  where  it  was  read.     Not  many


c


viii  INTRODUCTION

things  in  literature  have  the  power  to  do  this.  A  few
poems  of  Wordsworth,  the  ballad  of '  Clerk  Saunders,'
the  '  Agamemnon,'  the  *  Bride  of  Lammermoor,' '  King
Lear,'  *  The  Scarlet  Letter,'  *  Notre  Dame,'  and
'  Wuthering  Heights,'  these  are  all  that  have  effected
this  transference  and  secured  this  lodgement  in  my
experience.  Of  these,  Wuthering  Heights  is  the
most  vividly  re-established.      Indeed,  the  agent  of  my

lease  of  this  translated  country-side,  Elspeth  H ,

who  first  lent  me  the  book,  became  permanently  tinged
with  its  sombre  northern  colours  ;  and  her  end,  sad
and  premature,  was  almost  one  that  might  have  filled
its  Yorkshire  tragedy.  The  house  was  much  more
like  '  Wuthering  Heights,'  as  described  by  its  writer,
than  that  pictured  in  the  photographs  of  what  is
supposed  to  be  its  original.  This  farm-house.  High
Shaws,  was  like  many  plain  north-country  farmsteads
standing  on  bleak  hillsides,  and  many  of  its  circumstances
were  startlingly  like  those  of  'Wuthering  Heights,'
indoors  and  out  :  the  same  hearth,  the  same  Joseph's
ladder  up  to  its  Joft,  the  same  byres  and  out-buildings.
You  may  think  this  the  very  phantasy  of  criticism,  but
I  want  to  establish  the  almost  uncanny  irr.agination  of
place,  which  was  Emily  Bronte's,  and  by  which  she
made  a  stretch  of  moorland,  a  farm-house,  a  piece  of
wintry  sky,  a  twilight  effect,  live  in  her  page  as  a
street  of  Paris  lives  in  a  print  of  Merycn.  One  may
recall  many  a  scene,  exquisitely  painted  in  the  fewest
strokes,  that  occurs  in  her  chapter-opeiings,  where  he
pauses  to  read  the  sky  and  earth,  before  the  drama
moves  on.  So  she  realises  the  road  to  Gimmerton,
and  the  stone  sign-post  on  a  bright  frosty  afternoon  ;
the  ground  bare,  and  the  road  hard  and  dry.  ♦  The
sun  shone  yellow  on  its  grey  head,  reminding  me  of
summer  ;  and  I  cannot  say  why,  but  all  at  once  a
gush    of  childish    sensations   flowed  into   my    heart.'


INTRODUCTION  ix

The  hole  in  the  stone,  still  full  of  snail-shells  and
pebbles  ;  the  withered  turf,  the  afternoon  child-ghost,
they  are  lightly  but  indelibly  drawn.  See  again,  how
at  the  moment  of  HeathclifF's  ominous  return,  she  gives
just  the  impression  of  the  landscape  '  wondrously
peaceful,'  seen  on  a  mellow  evening  of  September  from
the  open  window  oi  Thrushcross  Grange — '  a  window
whose  lattice  lay  back,  against  the  wall,  and  displayed,
beyond  the  garden  trees  and  the  wild  green  park,  the
valley  of  Gimmerton,  with  a  long  line  of  mist  winding
nearly  to  its  top — Wuthering  Heights  rose  above  this
silvery  vapour;  but  our  old  house  was  invisible.'
Not  even  Dorothy  Wordsworth,  in  her  '  Journal  of  a
Tour  in  Scotland,'  has  caught  the JlyingJmageryof_sky
and  cloud,  earth  and  air,  more  sincerely,  or  with  a
<juicker  association  with  human  moods  and  emotions."

The  rest  of  these  comments  upon  the  art  of  Emily
Bronte  lie  outside  the  pale,  entering  upon  more  doubt-
ful ground.  What  else  there  is  to  be  said,  to  enhance
the  value  of  the  written  tale,  may  be  gathered  mainly
from  the  Biographical  Notice  and  the  Editor's  Preface
by  Charlotte  Bronte  :  and  more  moving  documents,  it
need  not  be  said,  were  never  prefixed  to  a  book.  But
a  few  added  dates  and  memoranda  may  help  to  make
her  initial  pages  still  clearer.

Emily  Bronte,  two  years  younger  than  Charlotte,
was  born  in  1818.  The  book  of  Poems  by  "  Currer,
Ellis,  and  Acton  Bell,"  then  appeared,  as  Charlotte
tells,  in  1846,  when  "Ellis"  or  Emily  was  twenty-
eight.  In  the  following  year,  and  in  December,
"  Wuthering  Heights  "  was  published  ;  and  on  the
19th  of  the  following  December — December  1848,
she  died.

Matthew  Arnold,  in  his  memorial  poem  inscribed
"  Haworth,  1855,"  the  year  when  Charlotte,  too,  was
carried  to  her  grave  there,  has  called  up  in  unforgettable


X  INTRODUCTION

lines  the  associations  of  the  Brontes  with  the  scene.
He  pictures  it,

"...   Far  northwards  from  here,
In  a  churchyard  high  'mid  the  moors,

There  on  its  slope  is  built
The  moorland  town.     But  the  church
Stands  on  the  crest  of  the  hill,
Lonely  and  bleak  ;  and  at  its  side
The  parsonage-house  and  the  graves.

Thou,  O  mourn'd  one,  to-day
Enter  the  house  of  the  grave  !  "

he     says,     speaking     to     her,    last    survivor    of    their
circle :

"  Round  thee  they  lie — the  grass

Blow^s  from  their  graves  to  thy  o